XIX. -- THE BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS YOBMOT.

YTIDRUSBA led Flin down several corridors, and across a courtyard, and into another wing of the building. Here he left him, but returned soon afterwards, and announced that the Princess was willing to see Flin, who, following his guide, was ushered into a very magnificent apartment. Seated on a sort of raised dais was the "lovely princess" Yobmot, who rose as Flin entered, and stepping from the dais held out her hand, which Flin took, and pressing his lips to it he bowed low. But the feeling with which he kissed the hand of the maiden almost amounted to disgust. His own was small compared to it. Hers was a coarse and hairy hand. From the representations of Ytidrusba he had expected to see a young lady who might have justly laid claim to some beauty. But though Flin, with the gallantry and courtesy characteristic of him, does not say all he thought of the Princess, it is very clear that he was by no means very greatly impressed. In age she must have been close on sixty, though, as he had learnt, this was simply childhood in Esnesnon. But used as he was in his own country to look upon a person who had reached that age as being in the sere and yellow leaf, he could scarcely reconcile himself to the fact that this blushing damsel was as yet but as a maiden in her teens.

The lady's face was by no means conspicuous for its beauty. Flin only makes a passing and delicate allusion to it, but from that we gather that the nose was a very prominent feature, and slightly retroussé. The eyes were small and somewhat sunken, and the forehead was low. The mouth was boldly cut, and lips unpleasantly thick, and when they were opened they revealed a set of irregular and somewhat discoloured teeth. Whether this lady had a long or a short tail Flin was not able to judge, as she wore a long, loose-fitting, but very elegant robe, made of asbestos and trimmed with feathers. Her hair, which was long, was twisted into a massive plait and hung down her back.

Having introduced Flin, Ytidrusba withdrew -- the artful old fellow -- and left Mr. Flonatin alone with the Princess. He says that he felt exceedingly uneasy, as with a gracious smile he offered his hand to her, with a view to leading her to a seat. But he was abashed by the look of astonishment which came into her face, and she exclaimed, --

"How very badly you have been brought up to be sure." Then she immediately checked herself, and added quickly: "There, there, I will excuse you, you are a stranger in our city. You have never been used, I suppose, to civilised society before, and so you may be pardoned."

"Permit me to lead you to a seat," the lady said, and Flin allowed himself to be led like a lamb to the fold.

The Princess seated herself beside him, and staring at him, especially at his bald head, in, as Flin thought, rather a rude manner, she remarked, --

"You are very young to be travelling alone. How is it your papa did not come with you, or send a competent guardian to take care of you? I am afraid that this is a very bad place for an unprotected young male who has any pretension to beauty. The ladies here are terrible creatures."

The Princess smiled, though Flin says that her smile was a "horse laugh." It is only charitable to believe that he made this assertion while smarting under some fancied wrong, for his well- known gallantry would scarcely have permitted him to be rude to one of the fair sex.

"Really, madam," answered Flin, "you need some information as to the customs of my country, where I should be considered quite capable of protecting myself. In fact, I may inform you that there the ladies are generally guarded and looked after, and that it would be considered the height of rudeness for a lady with any pretensions to good breeding to make the slightest advance to a gentlemen."

"Dear me, can it be possible that you are such barbarians!" cried the Princess in astonishment, as she played with a large feather fan. "The gentlemen make advances to the ladies?" she asked with a look of incredulity; and then breaking out into a little laugh she added, "No, it really cannot be possible. You are given to joking, you naughty little fellow, and you are trying to deceive poor me."

She closed the fan and tapped him playfully on the head with it - -- a familiarity which Flin by no means liked, but then, poor man, what was he to do, and how was he to resent it? The only thing was to submit calmly. Still, for the credit of his sex, he felt it to be a bounden duty to endeavour to improve this young lady, so he replied, --

"My dear madam, I cannot for a moment doubt that the attention you are pleased to honour me with is well meant, but you must really make some allowance for my bashfulness as well as for the novelty of the position in which I am placed."

"You are really most charming," remarked the Princess admiringly, and caressing Flin's hand -- an indignity he put an end to by quickly withdrawing his hand from hers. "Come, now," she said in a soothing tone. "I didn't mean any harm, I assure you. You are really so fascinating as to be irresistible."

"Madam," cried Flin, "this is unpardonable in a young person of your sex."

"Why, what an irritable little fellow you are, to be sure," answered the Princess, with a merry laugh, and passing her arm round Flin's waist. He pushed her away -- as he says -- somewhat roughly, but she only laughed the more and struggled to retain her hold. Flin's face burned with indignation, and his lips quivered with suppressed rage, but he was so astonished that he could not find words to give utterance to the feelings that were surging within him. "You are very cruel to repulse me thus," she murmured. "You have awakened in my heart a feeling of admiration that I cannot conceal. Deign to give me one little smile in return." Again her arm went round his waist, and again he wriggled away, and felt strongly inclined to rise up and leave the room. .What a hard-hearted little male you are, to be sure. Why do you repulse me so? But there, you are only tantalising me; are you not now?" and again she tried to draw him towards her, but he frustrated her design, and in a voice that quivered with indignation, he exclaimed, --

"Your Highness, I am really surprised at you; nay more, I may go so far as to say that I am shocked. I would remark that, even if I had been in the heyday of my youth, anything like fastness on the part of a lady would have raised in me a feeling of disgust. But when I remember that I am a grave and sober man of science, I can scarcely find words sufficiently strong to express my aversion for such unpardonable behaviour on the part of a lady occupying the high position that you do."

The Princess burst into a fit of most immoderate laughter. Flin's manner had amused her so much that she felt it impossible to control herself. But when she was able to speak she said, while her eyes were filled with tears through excessive laughing, --

"Do, my dear, forgive me for laughing at you. I really cannot help it. You are such a funny little fellow, and you simplicity is charming, upon my word. I cannot tell you how much I admire it. Do you know there is nothing I detest more than a forward young male. And you are so retiring and bashful that you are simply delightful. Why, there are some of our young males in Esnesnon that, if I were to make love to them, they would very soon allow me to caress them. But I don't like such easy conquest. The greatest pleasure you know is in the pursuit of pleasure. Now, I dare be bound that in the course of about an hour I would undertake to kiss the very highest-born young male in our land, in the same way that I am now going to sip the nectar of those beautiful lips of yours."

She made a motion as if about to kiss him, but Flin put up his hands and drew quickly back, so that her design was frustrated.

"You are too cruel, really," she said, "and ought not to treat me so. Why, do you know -- but there, of course you don't -- and so I will tell you that his Majesty has kept me confined to the palace for I don't know how long, and it is quite a change to enjoy the company of such a charming creature as yourself."

"It is a pity, your Highness, that his Majesty does not place you under the care of a strict governess, who would teach you propriety."

"Oh, you curious little creature," exclaimed the Princess. "It may surprise you to know I have just finished my education, and having been annoyed with teachers so long, it is only right I should have a little liberty now. But the King will not let me enjoy freedom. He says I am very wild and a little fast. Now, isn't that a wicked libel, don't you consider. Do I look as though I could lead a young male astray?"

"You ask me a question, madam, and I am bound to answer it. I think that your conduct is most reprehensible, and highly improper. Why, if a young lady were to conduct herself in my country in such a manner she would be shunned by every respectable person."

"Oh, but look what an uncivilised and wretched country yours is. Why, Mr. Ytidrusba tells me that the people who dwell there are the very lowest of beings."

"You will pardon me for contradicting that statement, madam, it is a gross untruth. I am proud to say that under the glorious stars and stripes the perfection of civilisation is reached. There the ladies are made love to by the gentlemen."

"Can it be possible?" exclaimed the Princess in wonderment. "Oh, what a horrid fashion. I shouldn't like to live there then."

"I do not suppose you would, madam," Flin replied. "I think, your Highness," he continued, "that after the frivolities I may venture to claim your serious attention to a little matter concerning myself, and in which I am desirous of soliciting your aid."

"Pray, my dear, command me," she answered. "I will fly to the ends of Esnesnon if you but command me."

"You are exceedingly kind," he said, "but I am not desirous of putting you to any such personal inconvenience."

"No inconvenience, love, if it would serve you," and again she tried to draw him towards her, but he held her at arm's length.

"Your Highness, will you try and be a little more reserved? This familiarity is shocking in the extreme."

"What a delightful creature you are, to be sure," she laughingly exclaimed. "Your childlike innocence is charming. But now tell me how I can serve you. Has any woman in Esnesnon dared to insult you. If so, one of my maids shall call her out and have revenge."

"Considering that I have not left the palace since I came to it, I have not suffered in the manner you suggest. But if I may believe that your Highness is a fair representative of the female population of this city, I can well imagine that even a venerable gentleman like myself would scarcely be safe in the streets."

Again the Princess roared with laughter. And when she had recovered sufficient breath to speak, she cried out, --

"Do not be so absurdly funny, there's a darling. You really make my eyes water and my sides ache. Why, you are such an interesting little creature that all the maidens in our fair city will be fighting about you. But let us to business. What is this great favour you require?"

"Well, you are aware, madam, that I am looked upon here as a curiosity."

"Yes, indeed, a very great curiosity."

"There has been a meeting of what I suppose I must call the savants of this place. And one Dr Yrekcauq suggests that I should be made a public exhibition of."

"Oh, what a horrid fellow?" exclaimed the Princess.

"That is just what I think, your Highness. The thought of being shown as if I were a wild animal is very shocking indeed to me, and I venture to pray that your Highness will use your influence with his Majesty -- your father -- in my behalf, and entreat him not to sanction the proposal of Dr Yrekcauq."

"That will I do with pleasure, sweet creature. I will worry the King's life out until he grants my request. I do not like that doctor at all. I believe him to be a bit of a humbug."

"Just my belief, madam."

"Ah, you see how well our ideas coincide. There is a mutual sympathy between us, and yet you treat me so unkindly. Now, is there anything else I can do?"

"I think not, at present. But I shall not fail to avail myself of your powerful influence should I need it."

"Command me at any time, I beseech you. I am going though to claim payment in advance for the service I shall render."

"I fear, madam, I have nothing to repay you with."

"Oh, you innocent little creature," she exclaimed, and with sudden movement she threw her arms round his waist, and drawing him quickly towards her, she kissed him.

At that moment, and before she could release him, or he disengage himself, the door opened, and the King and Ytidrusba stood upon the threshold.